=head1 NAME

AnyEvent::Ping - ping hosts with AnyEvent

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use AnyEvent;
    use AnyEvent::Ping;

    my $host  = shift || '4.2.2.2';
    my $times = shift || 4;
    my $package_s = shift || 56;
    my $c = AnyEvent->condvar;

    my $ping = AnyEvent::Ping->new;

    print "PING $host $package_s(@{[$package_s+8]}) bytes of data\n";
    $ping->ping($host, $times, sub {
        my $results = shift;
        foreach my $result (@$results) {
            my $status = $result->[0];
            my $time   = $result->[1];
            printf "%s from %s: time=%f ms\n", 
                $status, $host, $time * 1000;
        };
        $c->send;
    });

    $c->recv;
    $ping->end;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<AnyEvent::Ping> is an asynchronous AnyEvent pinger.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

L<AnyEvent::Ping> implements the following attributes.

=head2 C<interval>

    my $interval = $ping->interval;
    $ping->interval(1);

Interval between pings, defaults to 0.2 seconds.

=head2 C<timeout>
    
    my $timeout = $ping->timeout;
    $ping->timeout(3);

Maximum response time, defaults to 5 seconds.

=head2 C<error>

    my $error = $ping->error;

Last error message.

=head1 METHODS

L<AnyEvent::Ping> implements the following methods.

=head2 C<new>

    my $ping = AnyEvent::Ping->new(%options)

Constructs AnyEvent::Ping object. Following options can be passed:

=head3 C<interval>

=head3 C<timeout>

=head3 C<on_prepare>

In some cases you need to "tune" the socket before it is used to ping (for
exmaple, to bind it on a given IP address).

    my $ping = AnyEvent::Ping->new(
        on_prepare => sub {
            my $socket = shift;
            ...
    });

=head3 C<packet_generator>

Generates the data to be sent.

    my $ping = AnyEvent::Ping->new(
        packet_generator => sub {
            &AnyEvent::Ping::generate_data_random($packet_size);
    });

=head3 C<packet_size>

You can set the number of data bytes to be sent, if packet generation function
is not set. The default is 56, which translates into 64 ICMP data bytes when
combined with the 8 bytes of ICMP header data.

    my $ping = AnyEvent::Ping->new(packet_size => 56);

Each packet will be generated with generate_data_random() like this:

    &AnyEvent::Ping::generate_data_random($packet_size);

=head2 C<ping>

    $ping->ping($ip, $n => sub {
        my $results = shift;

        foreach my $result (@$results){
            my ($status, $time) = @$result;
            ...
        };
    });

Perform a ping of a given $ip address $n times.

=head2 C<end>

    $ping->end;

Ends all pings and releases resources.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<AnyEvent>, L<AnyEvent::FastPing>

=head1 AUTHOR

Sergey Zasenko, C<undef@cpan.org>.

=head1 CREDITS

Kirill (qsimpleq)

Sebastien Deseille (sdeseille)

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2012-2015, Sergey Zasenko

This program is free software, you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl 5.12.

